.TH chocolate\-doom 6
.SH NAME
chocolate\-doom \- historically compatible doom engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chocolate\-doom
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Chocolate Doom is a modern doom engine designed to behave
as similar to the original doom game as is possible.
.br

.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-cdrom\fR
[windows only] Save configuration data and savegames in c:\\doomdata, allowing play from CD. 
.TP
\fB-config <file>\fR
Load configuration from the specified file, instead of default.cfg. 
.TP
\fB-devparm\fR
Developer mode.  F1 saves a screenshot in the current working directory. 
.TP
\fB-episode <n>\fR
Start playing on episode n (1-4) 
.TP
\fB-extraconfig <file>\fR
Load extra configuration from the specified file, instead of chocolate-doom.cfg. 
.TP
\fB-fast\fR
Monsters move faster. 
.TP
\fB-file <files>\fR
Load the specified PWAD files. 
.TP
\fB-iwad <file>\fR
Specify an IWAD file to use. 
.TP
\fB-loadgame <s>\fR
Load the game in slot s. 
.TP
\fB-mb <mb>\fR
Specify the heap size, in MiB (default 16). 
.TP
\fB-mmap\fR
Use the OS's virtual memory subsystem to map WAD files directly into memory. 
.TP
\fB-noblit\fR
Disable blitting the screen. 
.TP
\fB-nodraw\fR
Disable rendering the screen entirely. 
.TP
\fB-nomonsters\fR
Disable monsters. 
.TP
\fB-nomusic\fR
Disable music. 
.TP
\fB-nosfx\fR
Disable sound effects. 
.TP
\fB-nosound\fR
Disable all sound output. 
.TP
\fB-respawn\fR
Monsters respawn after being killed. 
.TP
\fB-servername <name>\fR
When starting a network server, specify a name for the server. 
.TP
\fB-skill <skill>\fR
Set the game skill, 1-5 (1: easiest, 5: hardest).  A skill of 0 disables all monsters. 
.TP
\fB-turbo <x>\fR
Turbo mode.  The player's speed is multiplied by x%.  If unspecified, x defaults to 200.  Values are rounded up to 10 and down to 400. 
.TP
\fB-warp [<x> <y> | <xy>]\fR
Start a game immediately, warping to ExMy (Doom 1) or MAPxy (Doom 2) 

.SH COMPATIBILITY
.TP
\fB-donut <x> <y>\fR
Use the specified magic values when emulating behavior caused by memory overruns from improperly constructed donuts. In Vanilla Doom this can differ depending on the operating system.  The default (if this option is not specified) is to emulate the behavior when running under Windows 98. 
.TP
\fB-gameversion <version>\fR
Emulate a specific version of Doom.  Valid values are "1.9", "ultimate", "final", "final2", "hacx" and "chex". 
.TP
\fB-setmem <version>\fR
Specify DOS version to emulate for NULL pointer dereference emulation.  Supported versions are: dos622, dos71, dosbox. The default is to emulate DOS 7.1 (Windows 98). 
.TP
\fB-spechit <n>\fR
Use the specified magic value when emulating spechit overruns. 

.SH DEMO OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-longtics\fR
Record a high resolution "Doom 1.91" demo. 
.TP
\fB-maxdemo <size>\fR
Specify the demo buffer size (KiB) 
.TP
\fB-playdemo <demo>\fR
Play back the demo named demo.lmp. 
.TP
\fB-record <x>\fR
Record a demo named x.lmp. 
.TP
\fB-timedemo <demo>\fR
Play back the demo named demo.lmp, determining the framerate of the screen. 

.SH DISPLAY OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-1\fR
Don't scale up the screen. 
.TP
\fB-2\fR
Double up the screen to 2x its normal size. 
.TP
\fB-3\fR
Double up the screen to 3x its normal size. 
.TP
\fB-8in32\fR
Set the color depth of the screen to 32 bits per pixel. 
.TP
\fB-bpp <bpp>\fR
Specify the color depth of the screen, in bits per pixel. 
.TP
\fB-fullscreen\fR
Run in fullscreen mode. 
.TP
\fB-gdi\fR
[windows only] Use the Windows GDI driver instead of DirectX. 
.TP
\fB-geometry <WxY>\fR
Specify the screen mode (when running fullscreen) or the window dimensions (when running in windowed mode). 
.TP
\fB-grabmouse\fR
Grab the mouse when running in windowed mode. 
.TP
\fB-height <y>\fR
Specify the screen height, in pixels. 
.TP
\fB-nograbmouse\fR
Don't grab the mouse when running in windowed mode. 
.TP
\fB-nomouse\fR
Disable the mouse. 
.TP
\fB-nonovert\fR
Enable vertical mouse movement. 
.TP
\fB-novert\fR
Disable vertical mouse movement. 
.TP
\fB-width <x>\fR
Specify the screen width, in pixels. 
.TP
\fB-window\fR
Run in a window. 

.SH NETWORKING OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-altdeath\fR
Start a deathmatch 2.0 game.  Weapons do not stay in place and all items respawn after 30 seconds. 
.TP
\fB-autojoin\fR
Automatically search the local LAN for a multiplayer server and join it. 
.TP
\fB-avg\fR
Austin Virtual Gaming: end levels after 20 minutes. 
.TP
\fB-connect <address>\fR
Connect to a multiplayer server running on the given address. 
.TP
\fB-deathmatch\fR
Start a deathmatch game. 
.TP
\fB-dedicated\fR
Start a dedicated server, routing packets but not participating in the game itself. 
.TP
\fB-dup <n>\fR
Reduce the resolution of the game by a factor of n, reducing the amount of network bandwidth needed. 
.TP
\fB-extratics <n>\fR
Send n extra tics in every packet as insurance against dropped packets. 
.TP
\fB-ignoreversion\fR
When running a netgame server, ignore version mismatches between the server and the client. Using this option may cause game desyncs to occur, or differences in protocol may mean the netgame will simply not function at all. 
.TP
\fB-left\fR
Run as the left screen in three screen mode. 
.TP
\fB-localsearch\fR
Search the local LAN for running servers. 
.TP
\fB-oldsync\fR
Use original game sync code. 
.TP
\fB-port <n>\fR
Use the specified UDP port for communications, instead of the default (2342). 
.TP
\fB-privateserver\fR
When running a server, don't register with the global master server. Implies -server. 
.TP
\fB-query <address>\fR
Query the status of the server running on the given IP address. 
.TP
\fB-right\fR
Run as the right screen in three screen mode. 
.TP
\fB-search\fR
Query the Internet master server for a global list of active servers. 
.TP
\fB-server\fR
Start a multiplayer server, listening for connections. 
.TP
\fB-solo-net\fR
Start the game playing as though in a netgame with a single player.  This can also be used to play back single player netgame demos. 
.TP
\fB-timer <n>\fR
For multiplayer games: exit each level after n minutes. 

.SH DEHACKED AND WAD MERGING
.TP
\fB-aa <files>\fR
Equivalent to "-af <files> -as <files>". 
.TP
\fB-af <files>\fR
Simulates the behavior of NWT's -af option, merging flats into the main IWAD directory.  Multiple files may be specified. 
.TP
\fB-as <files>\fR
Simulates the behavior of NWT's -as option, merging sprites into the main IWAD directory.  Multiple files may be specified. 
.TP
\fB-deh <files>\fR
Load the given dehacked patch(es) 
.TP
\fB-merge <files>\fR
Simulates the behavior of deutex's -merge option, merging a PWAD into the main IWAD.  Multiple files may be specified. 
.TP
\fB-nocheats\fR
Ignore cheats in dehacked files. 
.TP
\fB-nwtmerge <files>\fR
Simulates the behavior of NWT's -merge option.  Multiple files may be specified.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
This section describes environment variables that control Chocolate Doom's
behavior.
.TP
\fBDOOMWADDIR\fR, \fBDOOMWADPATH\fR
These environment variables provide paths to search for Doom .WAD files when
looking for a game IWAD file or a PWAD file specified with the `-file' option.
\fBDOOMWADDIR\fR specifies a single path in which to look for WAD files,
while \fBDOOMWWADPATH\fR specifies a colon-separated list of paths to search.
.TP
\fBPCSOUND_DRIVER\fR
When running in PC speaker sound effect mode, this environment variable
specifies a PC speaker driver to use for sound effect playback.  Valid
options are "Linux" for the Linux console mode driver, "BSD" for the
NetBSD/OpenBSD PC speaker driver, and "SDL" for SDL-based emulated PC speaker
playback (using the digital output).
.TP
\fBOPL_DRIVER\fR
When using OPL MIDI playback, this environment variable specifies an
OPL backend driver to use.  Valid options are "SDL" for an SDL-based
software emulated OPL chip, "Linux" for the Linux hardware OPL driver,
and "OpenBSD" for the OpenBSD/NetBSD hardware OPL driver.

Generally speaking, a real hardware OPL chip sounds better than software
emulation; however, modern machines do not often include one.  If
present, it may still require extra work to set up and elevated
security privileges to access.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fB$HOME/.chocolate-doom/default.cfg\fR
The main configuration file for Chocolate Doom.  See \fBdefault.cfg\fR(5).
.TP
\fB$HOME/.chocolate-doom/chocolate-doom.cfg\fR
Extra configuration values that are specific to Chocolate Doom and not
present in Vanilla Doom.  See \fBchocolate-doom.cfg\fR(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBchocolate-server\fR(6),
\fBchocolate-setup\fR(6)
.SH AUTHOR
Chocolate Doom is written and maintained by Simon Howard.  It is based on
the LinuxDoom source code, released by Id Software.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co id Software Inc.
Copyright \(co 2005-8 Simon Howard.
.br
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of
the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

