.TH default.cfg 5
.SH NAME
default.cfg \- Chocolate Doom configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIdefault.cfg\fR
is the configuration file for \fBchocolate-doom\fR(6).  The configuration
options stored in the file are the same as those stored in the
original DOS Vanilla Doom.
Extra Chocolate Doom-specific options are stored in a separate
configuration file, \fBchocolate-doom.cfg\fR.
.PP
\fIdefault.cfg\fR is normally stored in the user's home directory,
in \fI~/.chocolate-doom/default.cfg\fR.
.PP
The \fBchocolate-setup\fR(6) tool provides a simple to use front-end
for editing \fIdefault.cfg\fR.
.br
.SH FILE FORMAT
The file is a plain-text file, consisting of a list of configuration
options and their values, separated by whitespace.  Each option is stored
on a separate line.  Options have different types; an option may have
either an integer, floating point or string value.  If the option is
of a string type, the value is surrounded by quotes (").
.PP
For example:
.RS
.PP
integer_value                1
.br
integer_value2               1
.br
floating_point_value         4.2
.br
string_value                 "hello world"
.RE
.PP
Invalid lines or comments in the file will be ignored, but it is advisable
not to put them in the file; the file is rewritten from scratch every time
the game exits, so any invalid lines or comments will be lost.
.PP
Some options are used for keyboard key bindings; these are stored as
integer values containing the keyboard scan code of the key to be bound to.
Boolean values are also stored as integers, with a value of zero usually
indicating "false" and a non-zero value indicating "true".

.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.TP
\fBmouse_sensitivity\fR
Mouse sensitivity.  This value is used to multiply input mouse movement to control the effect of moving the mouse. The "normal" maximum value available for this through the in-game options menu is 9. A value of 31 or greater will cause the game to crash when entering the options menu. 
.TP
\fBsfx_volume\fR
Volume of sound effects, range 0-15. 
.TP
\fBmusic_volume\fR
Volume of in-game music, range 0-15. 
.TP
\fBshow_messages\fR
If non-zero, messages are displayed on the heads-up display in the game ("picked up a clip", etc).  If zero, these messages are not displayed. 
.TP
\fBkey_right\fR
Keyboard key to turn right. 
.TP
\fBkey_left\fR
Keyboard key to turn left. 
.TP
\fBkey_up\fR
Keyboard key to move forward. 
.TP
\fBkey_down\fR
Keyboard key to move backward. 
.TP
\fBkey_strafeleft\fR
Keyboard key to strafe left. 
.TP
\fBkey_straferight\fR
Keyboard key to strafe right. 
.TP
\fBkey_fire\fR
Keyboard key to fire the currently selected weapon. 
.TP
\fBkey_use\fR
Keyboard key to "use" an object, eg. a door or switch. 
.TP
\fBkey_strafe\fR
Keyboard key to turn on strafing.  When held down, pressing the key to turn left or right causes the player to strafe left or right instead. 
.TP
\fBkey_speed\fR
Keyboard key to make the player run. 
.TP
\fBuse_mouse\fR
If non-zero, mouse input is enabled.  If zero, mouse input is disabled. 
.TP
\fBmouseb_fire\fR
Mouse button to fire the currently selected weapon. 
.TP
\fBmouseb_strafe\fR
Mouse button to turn on strafing.  When held down, the player will strafe left and right instead of turning left and right. 
.TP
\fBmouseb_forward\fR
Mouse button to move forward. 
.TP
\fBuse_joystick\fR
If non-zero, joystick input is enabled. 
.TP
\fBjoyb_fire\fR
Joystick button to fire the current weapon. 
.TP
\fBjoyb_strafe\fR
Joystick button to fire the current weapon. 
.TP
\fBjoyb_use\fR
Joystick button to "use" an object, eg. a door or switch. 
.TP
\fBjoyb_speed\fR
Joystick button to make the player run. If this has a value of 20 or greater, the player will always run. 
.TP
\fBscreenblocks\fR
Screen size, range 3-11. A value of 11 gives a full-screen view with the status bar not displayed.  A value of 10 gives a full-screen view with the status bar displayed. 
.TP
\fBdetaillevel\fR
Screen detail.  Zero gives normal "high detail" mode, while a non-zero value gives "low detail" mode. 
.TP
\fBsnd_channels\fR
Number of sounds that will be played simultaneously. 
.TP
\fBsnd_musicdevice\fR
Music output device.  A non-zero value gives MIDI sound output, while a value of zero disables music. 
.TP
\fBsnd_sfxdevice\fR
Sound effects device.  A value of zero disables in-game sound effects, a value of 1 enables PC speaker sound effects, while a value in the range 2-9 enables the "normal" digital sound effects. 
.TP
\fBsnd_sbport\fR
SoundBlaster I/O port. Unused. 
.TP
\fBsnd_sbirq\fR
SoundBlaster IRQ.  Unused. 
.TP
\fBsnd_sbdma\fR
SoundBlaster DMA channel.  Unused. 
.TP
\fBsnd_mport\fR
Output port to use for OPL MIDI playback.  Unused. 
.TP
\fBusegamma\fR
Gamma correction level.  A value of zero disables gamma correction, while a value in the range 1-4 gives increasing levels of gamma correction. 
.TP
\fBchatmacro0\fR
Multiplayer chat macro: message to send when alt+0 is pressed. 
.TP
\fBchatmacro1\fR
Multiplayer chat macro: message to send when alt+1 is pressed. 
.TP
\fBchatmacro2\fR
Multiplayer chat macro: message to send when alt+2 is pressed. 
.TP
\fBchatmacro3\fR
Multiplayer chat macro: message to send when alt+3 is pressed. 
.TP
\fBchatmacro4\fR
Multiplayer chat macro: message to send when alt+4 is pressed. 
.TP
\fBchatmacro5\fR
Multiplayer chat macro: message to send when alt+5 is pressed. 
.TP
\fBchatmacro6\fR
Multiplayer chat macro: message to send when alt+6 is pressed. 
.TP
\fBchatmacro7\fR
Multiplayer chat macro: message to send when alt+7 is pressed. 
.TP
\fBchatmacro8\fR
Multiplayer chat macro: message to send when alt+8 is pressed. 
.TP
\fBchatmacro9\fR
Multiplayer chat macro: message to send when alt+9 is pressed.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBchocolate-doom\fR(6),
\fBchocolate-doom.cfg\fR(5),
\fBchocolate-setup\fR(6)

